Hello students.
I'm back and in today's lesson we're going to move to a little more advanced approach to integrate her
theme and Gutenberg.
So stay tuned.
So far we already know how to basically use the tool.
We know how to add support to some advanced futures but there is still something missing.
Well don't you agree with me that it would be perfect if everything was seen Gutenberg is exactly the
same God in the front.
Or at least it's both Gutenberg and the front end.
Had a look which would be as close as possible for example I see that the fonts used here in Gutenberg
are not the same phones.
My theme is using.
Is that possible.
Yes it is.
In fact that's one of the goals of Gutenberg.
The idea is that theme developers can also if they wish of course style each block.
And also Gutenberg's all an addict in the area.
So that's what we see here can be as close as possible to the themes thrown in but that's optional according
to the world press documentation.
Film creators can if they wish.
Use blogs as they are without any additional style overriding the default styles could bring a really
cool experience to the end user.
But of course this can also mean more things to be done and considered by the developer taken as an
example the atomic blocks thing that I mentioned earlier in one of our lessons.
They only needed to use your sex files with a few lines each to modify Gutenberg.
In a way that it would look like the expected result in front end.
The purpose of this lesson is not to do the same thing here in our thing.
I'll just show you the best way.
And from then on if you think you want that in our project you already know where to go.
Okay.
So let's get started.
The first thing we need to do is to create a separate style sheet that you says file will be used only
in the WordPress admin area.
So here inside this CSX folder we're going to create a file called style hyphen editor.
That's USS
now logical.
This file is really really very simple.
First we add one more support called Ed styles
this theme support is required for most actions you need to perform in the backend.
Now we just need to call a function named add editor style
and we're going to pass the name of this success file we've just created.
Don't forget to add the name of the folder USS.
Now we can write all this assets that we control the appearance of the editor.
Let's try to make it similar to the front end and we start by defining three things First the size of
the container where the text part of our post is which is this area here then the size for the blocks
that have wide alignment.
And finally the size for the blocks that have full alignment to define this strip thinks we don't need
much work Gutenberg documentation has all the code we need we just go there and copy what we want write
and of course I'll make this link available to you.
Okay
the first section with the selector WP block is used to define the total size for each of the Gutenberg
blocks.
You can set the values you want here in pixels I think is this valuable lead of for example 800 pixels
the next line so for you to define the size of the blocks or the wide and full with right here for the
white blocks you can set the value you want to test that out and see what value can give you the best
results in my thing.
Ten eighty was a great pixel value and we may already see some minor changes
here for example you see them that the size of the container is eight hundred pixels and it's very come
in from the file that we created and let's change this category to wide and if you expect it you can
also see that the size is 10 80 pixels.
You can do your test type in the values directory here
and look at the results in front end and to get what we want.
Another thing we can do is make the phones look also closer to what we got in front end at this moment
the fonts used here in the ed. screen is totally different from what they get in front end.
To change that um you have to know what funds are used in the front end and apply the same phones to
the right elements in Gutenberg.
That of course would depend on your theme.
I'm going to give an example how I did on my theme.
So you understand what to do.
OK first these are the two phones I used in my theme lotto four paragraphs and also for the heading
tax first let's see what classes will have to change in Gutenberg.
Just speed things up.
I'm gonna paste here some success again.
These are the classes and rules that we need up here I'm targeting the whole Ed area with special attention
for the paragraphs as I've already added support for the editor of styles in the theme.
I can only read this piece here if I want.
Okay.
In fact I'm gonna get rid of it because WordPress append the selector automatically in the backend for
all of the elements classes and ideas that I want to add to the file.
And I'm saying that the font is going to be lateral with these margin values is the same role I have
in the front end style sheet.
The template that she has file with the addition of these margins.
And this one down here is the SAS has that controls the post title.
Look how interesting even the post title can be modified within the editor.
And this one uses a different font type.
Great.
Now if we reload Gutenberg
wonderful our text is already very similar to the one in the front in it brings back the two elements
you see that they already styled according to the admin assess file using the two phones and margins.
We defined and here you can see the class Ed styles wrapper which has been automatically appended very
correct.
So that's the idea.
Folks basically will inspect Gutenberg you find the element or block you want your style and other rule
here that target that element in the backend to assess your aim is to tweak the backend and to get as
close to the front end as possible.
You just need to remember that it's optional right.
If you don't want to implement this for example for your client site you don't really need.
However if you want to make your film available for download I recommend it to do at least the Baz exchanges
start here.
Some market places such as seeing enviros theme forest require you to ensure that all WordPress core
blocks are styled to match the design of the theme or demos.
Another requirement is that Web phones are also in cute while in my tests I didn't need to include my
two Google phones Latino and O's vote.
In order for them to display in Gutenberg.
Maybe that was due to the browser cache to really ensure that they will indeed display go back to functions
that BJP let's create a new function.
The point here is that this function needs to be fired on a special hook called NQ block editor assets
and here we are going to interview the two fonts in a very simplified way.
Call WP NQ style we best font handle for example Lando font and then the path to the Starship file which
we already have here in the successful.
Let me just copy these here
and now we did the same thing for the Oswald font
a hand you can add Google fonts using functions as well.
Most premium things do that.
I'll leave you of course the link with a great tutorial in this lesson too.
If you want to delve into it one more interesting thing you can do is to add a support called WP block
styles.
What it does is it can makes the appearance of the block of the native blocks you have here in Gutenberg.
Looks the same and when you see them in the front end it's only valid for the WordPress native blocks
okay.
For example let's add a quote here
so as you can see you have these formatting here.
But if you take a look at the front end
you'll see that it's quite different.
But now if you add that support let's do it.
Now reloading the page
now you see that the block here looks quite the same as the one we haven't Gutenberg once more.
This is only valid for the WordPress native blocks okay.
Another hint I can give you is that to take a look carefully here at this official documentation because
they are always adding new things new features new resources and you as a developer will learn a lot
from that well in the next lesson.
You close the series with some final considerations.
I'll show you some interesting features that I have not talked about yet.
So until next time.